Configure a Password Policy
Password policies help improve your org’s security by ensuring users conform to the password rules you specify. You can set password history, length, and complexity requirements, as well as specify what to do when a user forgets the password.
To see where your current password policy rates with Salesforce’s recommended policy, you can run a Salesforce Security Health Check. This will evaluate your policy against a set of security standards (a baseline) and, if it does not rate high enough, provide suggestions for improvement..
Configure a Password Policy
Go to Setup > Security > Password Policies.
Set the required fields according to your organization's security requirements.
User passwords expire in: Length of time before the password has to be reset by the user.
Enforce password history: Disallows the user from entering a password that was used before.
Minimum password length: Minimum character length of the password.
Password complexity requirements: Determines whether the password requires numbers and/or special characters, in addition to alpha characters.
Password question requirement: Determines whether or not the answer to the secret password question the user sets can contain the password.
Maximum invalid login attempts: Maximum time in a row that a user can enter an incorrect password before their account gets locked.
Lockout effective period: Length of time the account is locked after the user reaches the invalid login threshold. 
Obscure secret answer for password resets: Select this flag if you want the user’s answer to the secret question to display as dots rather than characters.
Require a minimum 1 day password lifetime: Set this flag if you want the user to have to wait at least 24 hours after changing their password to change it again.
Allow use of setPassword() API for self-resets: When selected, apps can use the setPassword() API  to change the current user’s password to a specific value. Deselect this option for increased security. When deselected, apps must use the changeOwnPassword() API to prompt users to set their password value. The changeOwnPassword() API verifies the user’s current password before allowing the change. When you deselect this option, you can’t select it again.
Customize the forgotten password and locked account assistance information.
Message: When you enter text in this field it will appear in the email users receive when they lock themselves out by trying to reset their password too many times. If you leave it blank, the default Salesforce message will appear.
Help Link: When you a URL in this field it will appear in the email users receive when they lock themselves out by trying to reset their password too many times. This can then direct them to an internal link for help on unlocking their account.
Click Save.
See Also
Perform a Salesforce Security Health Check