Create or Clone a Specification Record
There are multiple ways to create a new Specification record. If you are creating a Specification that’s similar to an existing one, the most efficient creation method is to Clone the existing record and then make modifications. The Details of your Specification will be cloned; however, Item Specifications, Category Specifications, Exemptions, and Compliance Statuses will not.
Create a New Specification Record
Select the Specifications tab from the navigation bar and then click New.
OR
Click the dropdown icon on the Specifications tab and select New Specification.
Enter a Name and a short Description of your Specification.
Select the Status of your Specification. A new Specification will either be in a Draft state, which means it cannot be applied, or in an Active state.
In the Long Description field, enter information that will help augment your Specification, such as Restricted Materials, how the Specification is applied, or links to relevant websites.
Enter the default Good Label and Bad Label values that will display when an item is either IN or OUT of compliance. As a best practice, we suggest you use the Compliant and Not Compliant values.
Select the Jurisdiction where this Specification will be enforced.
If applicable, set an Expiration Date for your Specification.
Complete any other fields that may be unique to your organization.
Click Save & New to create another Specification, or click Save to view your new Specification record.
Clone a Specification Record
As noted, the Details of your Specification will be cloned; however, Item Specifications, Category Specifications, Exemptions, and Compliance Statuses will not.
Select the Specifications tab from the navigation bar and click the Name of the Specification you want to clone to open the record.
Click Clone in the upper right of the record.
After a moment, your the New Specification screen will appear with the details from your cloned Specification.
Make changes to the fields as applicable, especially to the Name field. See the section above for more information on the fields.
Click Save.
See Also
Manage Item and Category Specifications
Manage Specification Exemptions