Customize Your Navigation Bar Tabs
In Propel, the navigation bar is the list of tabs that you see at the top of the screen. 
You can customize the tabs that you see by default every time you open Propel, and you can also change the order in which they appear across the screen.
If you need help adding accessing the Propel app, go to the Login and Launch Propel article.
Add Tabs from the Navigation Bar
In the top right, click the Pencil icon. This will launch the Edit Propel App Navigation Items screen.
Click Add More Items.
Click All. This will display all of the available tabs that you can add.
Here, you can scroll through the available tabs or use the Search all items… field to search for a specific tab.
Once you find the tab you’re looking for, click the Plus (+) icon. It will change to a checkmark.
You can select as many additional tabs as you like. Once you’ve selected them all, click Add <number> Nav Item(s). The <number> will change based on how many items you select.
Click Save. Your tab will be added to the end of the list.
Note: Depending on your screen size and the number of tabs you have, your new tab may appear in the More tab. Select the More tab to see a list of available tabs.
Reorder Tabs on the Navigation Bar
Note: In addition to the method below, you can also reorder tabs simply by dragging them to a different spot on your navigation bar.
If your tab is visible, meaning it is not contained in the More tab, you can simply drag it to a new location on the navigation bar.
If your tab is not visible, click the Pencil icon to bring up the Edit Propel App Navigation screen.
With the list of all tabs now visible, you can drag and drop the tabs to their new locations.
Once you’ve made all of your changes, click Save.
Remove a Tab from the Navigation Bar
You can’t remove any of the default tabs from the Propel app.
Click the Pencil icon to bring up the Edit Propel App Navigation screen.
For the tabs that are not part of the default Propel app, you’ll see an X to the right of their name, indicating that they can be removed.
Click the X to remove the tab.

Note: You can also click the Pencil icon to change the name of a non-default tab.
Once you’ve finished removing tabs, click Save.