Propel Setup and Administration
This section is intended for Propel Administrators to help manage Propel and make modifications to the org to meet the needs of users. Each of the areas below covers key aspects of Propel that are important for Propel Administrators to be aware of.
Propel Setup
A good place to start for Administrators new to Propel, the Propel System Overview provides an overview of the system, the core objects Propel uses, and key setup information. The Propel Setup Tab article covers an important configuration area of the system outside of Setup tasks and is important for all Admins working with Propel.
Propel System Overview
Propel Setup
Lifecycles
Propel Lifecycles provide the overall structure to help you manage your business practices for the Items that you manage and track. This section includes Lifecycle Phases and Phase Transitions.
Lifecycles Overview
Configure a Lifecycle
Lifecycle Phases
Configure a Change, Quality, or Declaration Phase
Configure an Item Phase
Lifecycle Phase Transitions
Configure a Lifecycle Phase Transition
Categories
Categories work in conjunction with Lifecycles and Lifecycle Phases to let you further configure and customize the behaviors and constraints of different Item, Change, Quality, and Declaration records.
Categories Overview
Configure a Category
Configure a Category through Propel Setup
Configure a Category through the Categories Tab
Autonumbers
Propel’s Autonumber feature lets you specify how the numbering sequence for a record will be formatted.
Autonumbers Overview
Configure an Autonumber
Approvals
Setting up Approvals and Approvers is an integral part to setting up Change, Quality, and Declaration records. This dictates how and by whom records will be reviewed and approved.
Approvals Overview
Observers Overview
Create Criteria-Based Approver Rules
Apply a Criteria-Based Approver Rule on a Record
Configure an Approver Definition
Setup Dual Signatures
Users and Permissions
Ensure your users have the correct configuration and permissions setup to ensure they can perform their duties. Much of this is standard Salesforce; however, we’ve customized the articles for Propel-specific situations.
Create a New Propel User
Assign Propel to a User
Deactivate a Propel User
Remove a Propel License from a User
Configure a Profile
Configure a Permission Set
Assign a Propel Permission Set
Add a Custom Field to a Permission Set
Configure a Public Group
Assign a User to a Public Group
Custom Fields and Display
Much of what users see on Item, Change, Quality, and Declaration records can be customized. Follow the links below to customize the data presented on the records and the various tabs within the records.
Add Custom Fields to the Item Object
Display Custom Fields on the Item Details Tab
Display Custom Fields on the Item Attachments Tab
Add Custom Fields to a Manufacturer Item or Manufacturer Part Record
Display Custom Fields on Item Manufacturer Tab
Display Custom Fields on the Item BOM Tab
Add Custom Fields to a Change or Quality Record
Make Custom Fields Required by Category and Phase
Display Custom Fields on the Affected Items Tab
Add Fields to the Where Used Tab
Customize a Page Layout
Add Values to a Picklist Field
Add the Has Redlines Field to the BOM Tab
Set Up Alternate Parts in a BOM
Watermark Item Attachments using a Flow (recommended method for watermarking)
Watermark Item Attachments using Process Builder
Configure PDF Generation from a Word Template
Override Field Labels for Propel Packaged Fields
Manage Costs
Quoted Costs and other Roll-Up Types
Locked Costs
Propel Advanced Costing
Manage BOM Costs
Edit Costs on Released BOMs
Configure Cost Roll-Ups
Configure Additional Cost Fields to Track in Part Cost History
Propel Sharing Rules
Propel Sharing Rules let you automate the sharing of private records, allowing for safe and secure information sharing between internal divisions and external groups, such as design, supply chain and manufacturing partners.
Propel Sharing Rules and Reporting Overview
Configure a Public Group for Propel Sharing Rules
Create a Custom Field for a Propel Sharing Rule
Configure a Propel Sharing Rule
Create Process Builders for Propel Sharing Rules
Set Objects to Private for Propel Sharing Rules
Run a Workspace Report for Propel Sharing Rules
Advanced Salesforce Help
This section provides help with common Salesforce issues, such as Validation Rules, Dependent Fields, Licensing, Sharing Rules, etc.
Configure Validation Rules
Configure Dependent Picklists
Configure Salesforce Sharing Rules
Perform a Salesforce Security Health Check
Configure a Password Policy
Configure Network Access
Manage Your Company Information Page
Refresh a Sandbox
Import Data
While most common during implementations, there may be times when you need to import large amounts of data into Propel. This section covers importing various data types using Salesforce Dataloader or Propel’s Import Tool.
Note: The articles in this section are intended for Propel Consultants and Partners and experienced Propel Administrators who are comfortable working with large data sets and importing directly into Salesforce custom objects. Propel Support is not responsible for data integrity errors or data loss resulting from importing data directly into Salesforce custom objects. It is assumed that the person performing the import is experienced with Salesforce objects and schema and has prior experience performing data migrations.
Propel Import Tool
Propel Import Tool: Item Data
Propel Import Tool: Bill of Material (BOM) Data
Propel Import Tool: Approved Manufacturer List (AML) Data
Propel Import Tool: Item Attachments (Files)
Propel Import Tool: Manufacturer Part Cost
Propel Import Tool: Multi-Source Manufacturer Parts
Import Data through an API
View Recently Used Import Field Mappings
Salesforce Dataloader and Import Wizard
Dataload: Items and Item Revisions
Dataload: Users
Dataload: BOM (Bill of Material)
Dataload: Manufacturers (Accounts)
Dataload: Manufacturer Parts
Dataload: Manufacturer Items (AML)
Dataload: Changes
Dataload: Affected Items (Changes)
Dataload: Quality Records
Dataload: Affected Items (Quality)
Dataload File Attachments (Items)
Dataload File Attachments (Change, Quality, and Declaration Records)
Dataload: Affected Items (Declaration)
Dataload: Import Activities into a Project from a Spreadsheet
Propel Advanced Configurations
Go to our Propel Advanced Configurations section which provides articles to help you perform more advanced Propel Administration activities.